Updating data viz topics (#405)
IgniteUI/indigo-design-docfx: en/components/column-chart.md

_keywords: Design Systems, Design Systems UX, UI kit, Sketch, Ignite UI for Angular, Sketch to Angular, Sketch to Angular, Angular, Angular Design System, Export code from Sketch, Design Kits for Angular, Sketch HTML, Sketch to HTML, Sketch UI kits
---

# Column Chart

 Category Charts are often combined to create beautiful dashboards for related sets of data. Column Charts are among the most common category chart types used to quickly compare frequency, count, total, or average of data in different categories with data encoded by vertical bars of equal width and differing heights. They are ideal for showing variations in the value of an item over time. Data is represented using a collection of rectangles that extend from the bottom to top of the chart towards the values of data points.

## Column Chart Demo

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_demo.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_demo@2x.png 2x" />

The Column Chart comprises of Title and Chart area, where you can choose from Idle or Hover states.

## Title

The Column Chart has a title that can be changed or hidden if not needed.

> 

Reviewer: Rather than the image you have here, I'd show one with just the title element.

> 

Author: If the title is visible then it's the same example as the default. Do you mean the image should have the title and be blank below?

> 

Reviewer: I mean it should be an image only with the title, like there should be image only with the legend. My goals is to show only the atomic pieces that together result in a chart to make things more direct and save some height as the page is getting too long.

> 

Author: Yeah, I got that from other similar comments on the other topics.

## Tooltip

The Column Chart comes with an override for the tooltip visibility: **Tooltip Off** hides it and Tooltip On shows it on top of the series.

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_tooltip-off.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_tooltip-off@2x.png 2x" />
<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_tooltip-on.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_tooltip-on@2x.png 2x" />

## Styling

> Columns can be hidden, by setting individual columns to "No Symbol" in order to change their number, as well as hiding the Y axis and it's title. Тhe color of the series can also be changed. The annotations can be removed by deleting their content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First and foremost, the Column Chart lets you change the color of the series. It is recommended to change it only for another color of the palette we have defined for data visualizations with nuances named series.1, series.2 and so on till series.10. You may also change the colors of the vertical and horizontal axis, the gridlines, as well as the chart area background and border colors. Titles, labels, annotation values etc. are also customizable via the available text styles in the **Indigo.Design System**.
```

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_styling.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_styling@2x.png 2x" />

## Usage

Use the Column Chart when you want to see the amount of change over a period of time. Always start you numeric Axis at 0, so you don't misrepresent the data. Don't use different colors for the same category. If you use time to represent the change in the category you should always set it on the horizontal axis. If you need a detailed Time-Series analysis  - consider a Line Chart with a Time-Series for this type of data.

| Do                                                                                             | Don't                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | <img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_do1.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_do1@2x.png 2x" /> | <img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_dont1.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_dont1@2x.png 2x" /> |

Reviewer: See the do - don't format we use in other topics with green and red element in the top left and use it here. I also think that based on what you wrote in the paragraph above you can add at least one more visual with do and don't.

## Additional Resources

Related topic:

> - [Data Binding](../codegen/data-binding.md)
>   <div class="divider--half"></div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Line Chart](../line-chart.md)
  <div class="divider--half"></div>
```

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_gridlines.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_gridlines@2x.png 2x" />

## Data Points

Data Points for a Column Chart are the individual columns, which use a Smart Layout in Sketch making it possible to adjust their amount on the Chart Area. They come with configurable labels on the X-axis and annotation labels.

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_columns.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_columns@2x.png 2x" />

## Styling

First and foremost, the Column Chart lets you change the color of the series. It is recommended to use only colors from the palette for data visualizations with nuances named series.1, series.2 and so on till series.10. You may also change the colors of the vertical and horizontal axis, the gridlines, as well as the chart area background and border colors. Titles, labels, annotation values etc. are also customizable via the available text styles in the **Indigo.Design System**.

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_styling.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_styling@2x.png 2x" />

## Usage

> Use the Column Chart when you want to show the amount of change over a period of time. Always start your numeric Axis at 0 to avoid misrepresenting the data. Also, abstain from using different colors for the same category. If referencing time, e.g. dates or months, to represent the change in the category, you should always set it on the horizontal axis. Use subtle colors for the Gridlines to make the chart easier to the eye. If you need a more detailed time series visual, consider using a Line Chart instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the Column Chart when you want to show the amount of change over a period of time. Always start your numeric Axis at 0 to avoid misrepresenting the data. Also, avoid using different colors for the same category. If referencing time, e.g. dates or months, to represent the change in the category, you should always set it on the horizontal axis. Use subtle colors for the Gridlines to make the chart easier on the eye. If you need a more detailed time series visual, consider using a Line Chart instead.
```

## Column Chart Demo

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_demo.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_demo@2x.png 2x" />

The Column Chart comprises of Title and Chart area, where you can choose from Idle or Hover states.

## Title

The Column Chart has a title that can be changed or hidden if not needed by setting its override to ~No Symbol.

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_title-off.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_title-off@2x.png 2x" />

## State

The Column Chart has two states - Idle and Hover. In the Hover state a tooltip is shown upon hovering over a data point, which is then focused and the other columns are dimmed out.

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_tooltip-off.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_tooltip-off@2x.png 2x" />
<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_tooltip-on.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_tooltip-on@2x.png 2x" />

## Y-Axis

> The Y-axis of the column chart comprises of a Title, Labels and an Axis. The Title and the labels can be changed or hidden. To hide the Title just type a Spacebar in its field and to hide a label set its override to ~No Symbol. By changing the Axis' color to transparent you can also hide it if needed. And to hide all of the Y-axis change its state to ~No Symbol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Y-axis of the column chart comprises of a Title, Labels, and the Axis itself. The Title and the Labels are configurable and to hide a label simply set its override to ~No Symbol. You may hide the axis line by setting its color to `Transparent` and to hide all elements at once, change the Y-axis override to ~No Symbol.
```

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_yaxis.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_yaxis@2x.png 2x" />

## Gridlines

> The Gridlines of the Column chart can change their color, or if they need to be hidden just change their color to transparent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Column Chart has built-in Gridlines to make it easier to visually trace a data point to a value on the Y-axis. To hide them just set their color to `Transparent`.
```

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_gridlines.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_gridlines@2x.png 2x" />

## Data Points

> The Data Points (the columns) can be hidden by setting individual columns to ~No Symbol in order to change their number. The annotations can be changed or removed by deleting their content and placing a Spacebar instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data Points for a Column Chart are the individual columns, which use a Smart Layout in Sketch making it possible to adjust their amount on the Chart Area. They come with configurable labels on the X-axis and annotation labels.
```

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_columns.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_columns@2x.png 2x" />

## Styling

> First and foremost, the Column Chart lets you change the color of the series. It is recommended to change it only for another color of the palette we have defined for data visualizations with nuances named series.1, series.2 and so on till series.10. You may also change the colors of the vertical and horizontal axis, the gridlines, as well as the chart area background and border colors. Titles, labels, annotation values etc. are also customizable via the available text styles in the **Indigo.Design System**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First and foremost, the Column Chart lets you change the color of the series. It is recommended to use only colors from the palette for data visualizations with nuances named series.1, series.2 and so on till series.10. You may also change the colors of the vertical and horizontal axis, the gridlines, as well as the chart area background and border colors. Titles, labels, annotation values etc. are also customizable via the available text styles in the **Indigo.Design System**.
```

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_styling.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_styling@2x.png 2x" />

## Usage

> Use the Column Chart when you want to see the amount of change over a period of time. Always start you numeric Axis at 0, so you don't misrepresent the data. Don't use different colors for the same category. If you use time to represent the change in the category you should always set it on the horizontal axis. Don't use too active color for the Gridlines as it will make the chart hard to read and will take away the focus. If you need a detailed Time-Series analysis  - consider a Line Chart with a Time-Series for this type of data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Column Chart when you want to show the amount of change over a period of time. Always start your numeric Axis at 0 to avoid misrepresenting the data. Also, abstain from using different colors for the same category. If referencing time, e.g. dates or months, to represent the change in the category, you should always set it on the horizontal axis. Use subtle colors for the Gridlines to make the chart easier to the eye. If you need a more detailed time series visual, consider using a Line Chart instead.
```

| Do                                                                                             | Don't                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | <img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_do1.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_do1@2x.png 2x" /> | <img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_dont1.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_dont1@2x.png 2x" /> |

Reviewer: I think we can produce more examples for dos and donts based on the paragraph above.

---
title: Column Chart - Design System Component
_description: The Column Chart Component Symbol is used to quickly compare frequency, count, total, or average of data in different categories with data encoded by vertical bars with equal width and differing lengths..
_keywords: Design Systems, Design Systems UX, UI kit, Sketch, Ignite UI for Angular, Sketch to Angular, Sketch to Angular, Angular, Angular Design System, Export code from Sketch, Design Kits for Angular, Sketch HTML, Sketch to HTML, Sketch UI kits
---

# Column Chart

 The Column Chart is among the most common chart types used to quickly compare frequency, count, total, or average of data in different categories with data encoded by vertical bars of equal width and differing heights. They are ideal for showing variations in the value of an item over time. Data is represented using a collection of rectangles that extend from the bottom to the top of the chart towards the values of data points.

## Column Chart Demo

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_demo.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_demo@2x.png 2x" />

> The Column Chart comprises of Title and Chart area, where you can choose from Idle or Hover states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Column Chart comprises of `Title`, a `Legend` that is hidden by default, and `Chart Area` available in Idle and Hover states.
```

## Title

> The Column Chart has a title that can be changed or hidden if not needed by setting its override to No Symbol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Column Chart has a title that can be changed or hidden if not needed by setting its override to ~No Symbol.
```

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_title-off.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_title-off@2x.png 2x" />

## State

The Column Chart has two states - Idle and Hover. In the Hover state a tooltip is shown upon hovering over a data point, which is then focused and the other columns are dimmed out.

> <img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_tooltip-off.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_tooltip-off@2x.png 2x" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/column_chart_tooltip-off.png" srcset="../images/column_chart_tooltip-off@2x .png 2x" />
```
